---
layout: page
title: R&eacute;sum&eacute;
permalink: /resume/
---

### Professional Summary
- Primary iOS developer for Splice, a video editor that was acquired by GoPro.
- Proficient in iOS development including the Foundation framework, UIKit, Core Data, GCD, Core Image, AVFoundation, Core Location, MapKit, WebKit, and PhotosUI.
- Developed RetailMeNot iOS app and contributed to Android app, API and backend servers, and internal admin sites.
- Cofounded and sole developer for Extinguish, a SaaS provider for fire departments.
- Experience utilizing both Swift and Objective-C languages.


### Experience
**Senior Software Engineer**<br>
**[GoPro](http://gopro.com)**, Austin, Texas<br>
March 2016 &ndash; December 2016

- Lead a team of iOS engineers on development of Splice, a top performing video editor on the iOS App Store.
- Rebranded Splice so that it fit within the GoPro brand’s look and feel.
- Lead development efforts on components internal to GoPro that were used across multiple teams. Components included UI elements, a photo and video picker and social account management for Facebook, Google, Instagram, Dropbox, and GoPro Plus.
- Worked with multiple teams in multiple timezones to deliver functionality within Splice and Quik mobile apps.

---

**Senior iOS Engineer**<br>
**Vemory, Inc.**, Austin, Texas<br>
May 2014 &ndash; March 2016

- The lead and primary iOS developer during the complete rewrite of Splice app, a leading video editor for iOS that was acquired by GoPro.
- Aided in the conversations and processes that led to the GoPro acquisition of Vemory.
- Developed Splice's custom video compositor, which supported real time playback of multiple video and audio tracks, and powerful filters, text rendering, and  transitions. Every frame that was played on screen or exported to device was generated by this compositor.
- Architected and developed Splice's threading model, which is built on top GCD and NSOperation. The patterns used facilitated background tasks and complex dependency graphs while maintaining thread safety.
- Created UI elements including custom views and controls, custom collection view layouts, reusable child view controllers, and reusable view controller containers. Several of these custom views utilized multiple gesture recognizers working together.
- Architected and developed Splice's data model, which was built on top of Core Data.
- Hired as the first internal iOS engineer, I was tasked with transitioning the Vemory app from a team of 6 contractors to in house development. Vemory was a social photo slideshow editor and video maker.

---

**Software Engineer II**<br>
**[RetailMeNot](http://retailmenot.com)**, Austin, Texas<br>
January 2013 &ndash; May 2014

- Showed versatility and a get-it-done attitude by contributing to all facets of the the mobile platforms, including the iOS and Android apps, internal admin tools, and the mobile API.
- Focused on development for the RetailMeNot iOS app, which contains hundreds of thousands of coupons and tens of thousands of stores.
- Contributed to the RetailMeNot Android app, which is installed on over 500,000 devices.
- Updated and maintained internal PHP-backed web tools for managing content that was displayed in the app and the Java-based API that the mobile apps used.
- Created internal iOS app that allowed employees of RetailMeNot to choose the meals that were catered.
- Worked with Product, QA, API engineers and other mobile engineers in a Scrum development cycle.

---

**Technical Co-Founder**<br>
**[Extinguish, LLC](https://extinguishapp.com)**, Austin, Texas<br>
December 2009 &ndash; Present

- Created and designed iOS app and web client that manages over 7,000 building plans and 70,000 hydrants for more than 400 fire departments around the world.
- Created a robust syncing solution between customer devices and company servers.
- Wrote and maintain PHP server back end, MySQL databases, and JavaScript front end for the company website.
- Developed an internal account management system.
- Managed company and product direction.


### Education
**Texas A&amp;M University**, College Station, Texas<br>
Bachelor of Science in Computer Science<br>
Overall GPA: 3.526


### References
Professional and personal references available upon request.


### Skills
Swift, Objective-C, Cocoa and Cocoa Touch Frameworks, Git, PHP, MySQL, JavaScript, HTML, CSS

Familiar With: Go, C++, C, Linux, Node.js, Android APIs, Java
